"As the prophet of Ahvis, I can attest to the vile nature of her supposed husband, Sahkris. She has spoken to me through my dreams. He and his 
children alike are betrayers, and care for none but themselves. The spirit of Sahkris lies dormant in his children, your husbands, 
your brothers, and your sons. We as children of Ahvis must take revenge. Abandon those whom you hold most dear, for they will always 
have a knife ready at your back. Trust only in Ahvis, and trust only in me, her prophet, for I will protect you, I will guide you, and 
I will always be with you."

- The newly appointed head of the temple council's first address

"I took a trip recently to the Eld'uukhar inhabited planet in the system Magna Ilo to trade for a few crystals. The cities of this planet 
were just as opulent as I had heard, buildings crafted from crystal and gold, towering spires that touched the sky. Their temples were a 
sight to behold. I did not venture inside out of respect for the worshippers, but I'd imagine the inside to be just as beautiful. Despite 
the wonders I have seen there, I have left that planet with a feeling of unease. I had taken a wrong turn and found myself in a sector that 
seemed to be abandoned. The temples that I had seen were here also, but as piles of dirty rubble, and banners embroidered with a symbol I 
had not seen before were laid torn and ruined on the ground. I came to what could only be described as a slum. Male Eld'uukhar dressed in 
rags were huddled by clusters of Thanatite crystal to keep warm, horribly thin from a lack of food. Haunted, I left that place quickly, and 
the planet soon after. I doubt I'll be making another trip."

- Part of a manuscript detailing a Vel'uuish encounter in an Eld'uukhar city

"Contact with the other pockets of resistance has proven to be difficult. We're always unsure if we are being followed. On many planets we have 
found standalone temples with Ahvis' worshippers infesting them, ready for us. Where do they even come from to get to our destinations this fast? 
I fear we may spend the rest of our lives on this ship."

- A resistance leader's worried ship log 

The Eld'uukhar have two governing bodies, the temple council, and the people's council. The people's council answers to the temple council. The 
people's council is elected, whereas the temple council is decided based on the will of four priests, two male, two female, who consume Exonite 
crystals to elicit communication between the deities and themselves, and through this decide who will be appointed (As an aside, the consumption 
of Exonite is forbidden to all but these four, who are replaced by their children when they eventually die). The head of the council is chosen 
once every ten years through this method, a male one decade, and a female the next. It is considered their divine right to rule, and their word 
sways the entire races' social/economic development for the next ten years. In more recent times, this has been abused, and the current head of 
the temple council - Ka'tir Upitah - intends to keep her rule until she eventually dies, claiming to be a direct messenger from the deity Ahvis. 
As a race, the Eld'uukhar have developed from bloodthirsty nomadic tribes into a peaceful people, although the recent persecution of males of the 
species under Ka'tir's rule has brought about the uprising of little pockets of resistance on Eld'uukhar inhabited planets, and the state has 
retaliated by increasing military presence in all major cities. 

Eld'uukhar choose a mate for life, and when a life mate is chosen, the couple must ask to be blessed in a temple by a priest representing Sahkris, 
and a priestess representing Ahvis. In order to gain this blessing, each consume one half of a Rasiline crystal - which has similar chemical 
properties to Exonite - and if they can endure the hallucinations that follow, they can continue with the ceremony.
