Pharitu Lore


The homeworld of the unusual race known as the Pharitu is a hostile and hellish place, where survival on the surface is nearly impossible for any other known intelligent species. Extremophiles able to withstand heat are the only real exception to this, and even they have issues with the atmospheric conditions.
In fact, so hostile is the environment that even the Pharitu themselves stick to subterranean regions except during very specific weather conditions (more on this later, as this is an entire chapter in and of itself). Few species can truly appreciate the toil of their daily existence (less problematic now than it was millenia ago).
A Pharitu in ancient times almost never stopped moving, due in part to tectonic plate movements but primarily as a result of magma flowing at nearly every strata of the planets crust. They were instead almost constantly burrowing, digging through solid rock and ingesting it as they went along in order to sustain themselves.
Their hands possess exceptionally strong muscles capable of digging through most stone when fueled by energy from their Shakta, the natural gem formations that contain the essence which fuels their lives. Through this energy, akin to psionic power, they can harden their flesh and 'cut' into stone, allowing them the ability to shape it as no other known species can.

As time wore on, they learned to harness the power of their Shakti and formed societies with the aid of this power: they learned that through a group-think, they could literally turn stone into nearly impenetrable material capable of withstanding the magma that for so long had threatened their safety.
Now, their world is covered in bastions of stone craftsmanship the galaxy has never before seen; This led to a renaisance among their species, and has earned them a reputation as the foremost craftsmen in the known universe. If you need it built to last, then you find a group of Pharitu willing to sell their services.

This comes at a price, however; Pharitu have no use for conventional money. Gems are their currency. The rarer, the better. The reason for this is due to their need to constantly fuel their Shakti, or risk death or insanity.
How is this achieved, you wonder? Well, my friend...this is where things get complicated. I mentioned weather earlier, and that is where we must now return. You see, there are storms on their world which they call Highstorms. On the surface, these rage like a death tempest, threatening to tear even mountains down. But with these storms, comes energy. And this energy can be harnessed to infuse gemstones with power they are able to siphon into their own bodies. Their food.
The more condensed and rare the gem, the greater the energy it can hold. And so, on days of highstorms, Pharitu will tunnel towards the surface. There, they will lay their most treasured gemstones, returning later to gather them once the storm has died down. They then carry them wherever they travel, should they ever need to draw forth the energy to restore themselves.

As for their first forays into space, we should be envious. Using their Shakti, a Pharitu is able to shape more than just stone. It turns out they are capable psionics, and can utilize these 'powers' to communicate into the minds of others via telepathy(unsettling, but that is how every Pharitu communicates with others), or with each other over extreme distances (at great drain to their Shakti, mind you), shape stone and metal, and even create constructs of solid matter capable of acting as fuel for ships...ships made of material they themselves molded with their minds.

Most use standard metals and stones out of simple access to materials, but more wealthy Pharitu, or ones with abnormally large Shakti, are keen on creating ships out of less common materials. It is not unheard of to see ships made of exotic materials found on other worlds through their travels. I once met one who had created a ship entirely from wood and seashells.

While they -can- propel their ships with their Shakti, most prefer standard methods to save them the need to constantly eat (I can imagine how aggravating it would be to need thousands of pounds of gemstones just to fuel a short foray among the stars). Thus, they are keen to trade on the galactic market to obtain parts needed to create 'ordinary' ship parts. This is not too big a hassle for them due to their lack of need for standard pixels. Should they find themselves without coin, however, they -always- have gems on hand to sell (though most are loathe to do so unless absolutely necessary)



It should be noted that Highstorms are not the only thing that can refill the power into their gemstones; harsh weather on most worlds can provide the means to do so , though at a severely reduced rate. Typically, the more dangerous the planet the more effective this is.

Pharitu are a 'slow' race, in that they rarely rush to accomplish tasks, and are the sort to think of every potential outcome before committing to a decision.  Every act a Pharitu performs is calculated and thought on, likely a holdover from a hostile environment where one wrong tunneling gesture could cause a catastrophic collapse. Some have whispered that their psionic capabilities include the ability to see (in a limited capacity) into the future. This has led to fear and misunderstanding of them among many of the other races, moreso the younger ones like Fenerox and Humans. However, if this is true no Pharitu has confirmed it.

In order to directly communicate with a Pharitu, there are requirements to be met. First, you must have earned their trust. In and of itself, this is a challenge. They are not quick to trust, and view 'fast' races with caution, for hasty decisions can lead to bad ends (at least by their perspective). Once you do earn their trust, however, you will know it immediately. They will offer an infused gemstone. If you accept, they will be able to channel their Shakti into your own mind and communicate directly to you via telepathy. There is no need for a translator, as far as we have ever seen. This communication appears to be flawless with any species they choose to speak to. Even Thelusians and Tenebrhae.