The Vel'uuish are a proud race divided into two distinct factions, the Kir'vat and the Vat'iish. 

Kir'vat:
The Kir'vat are a faction made up of artisans, scholars and artisans, their burning curiosity drives them to pursue knowledge above all else, to the
point that it can sometimes lead them into trouble. They travel the galaxy and set up temporary outposts to complete a new vein of research before
 moving on again. They are naturally optimistic, see a silver lining in everything and are always willing to lend a hand to help those in need.

Vat'iish:
The Vat'iish are a prideful faction and, while they are intelligent, they scorn the Kir'vat and their "cowardly" ways, choosing instead to forge the
 path of the warrior. They use the galaxy as their own personal trophy cabinet, seiging inhabited worlds and taking over the settlements that may be
 stationed there just to show that they can. They are cunning, deceitful, and will never do anything for anyone without a good incentive to do so. 

The Vel'uuish homeworld is inhabited mostly by Kir'vat, and is used as a massive store for the knowledge that they have gathered over the time that 
their race has existed. The Vat'iish, naturally, stay away from the homeworld as much as possible, although in times of great emergency, they will
 return home to offer their strength should it be needed, for a price, of course. The Kir'vat hope that one day the Vat'iish will see that there is
 strength in unity, and as such do not resent the Vat'iish for their prickly nature. 

The race as a whole is run by a large council of 20 members, and 2 leaders, 10 Kir'vat, and 10 Vat'iish. The leader of the Kir'vat stays on the 
homeworld, and changes every 4 years through a democratic election. The leader of the Vat'iish, however, changes often. The Vat'iish have a 
tradition that any of their faction can become the leader so long as they can defeat the current one in a trial by combat. A challenger must
 first prove their might in a test decided by the 10 Vat'iish council members, and should they survive, the leader will allow the trial to
 take place. 